The Project Gutenberg eBook of My betrothed and other poems
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: My betrothed and other poems

Author: Lizzie Magie

Release date: October 27, 2024 [eBook #74646]

Language: English

Original publication: Washington, D. C: The Brodix Publishing Company

Credits: Carla Foust, Chris Hapka and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY BETROTHED AND OTHER POEMS ***





                              My Betrothed

                                  and

                              Other Poems

                                   BY

                             LIZZIE MAGIE.


 If perhaps these rhymes of mine should sound not well in strangers’
    ears,
 They have only to bethink them that it happens so with theirs;
 For so long as words, like mortals, call a fatherland their own,
 They will be most highly valued where they are best and longest known.

                                                             Longfellow.


                     THE BRODIX PUBLISHING COMPANY,
                                 1892.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            Copyright, 1892,
                            By LIZZIE MAGIE,
                  229 H St., N. E., Washington, D. C.


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 Index.

                                                 PAGE
                  MY BETROTHED,                     5
                  GENIUS IMPRISONED,               16
                  I LOVE YOU,                      19
                  SELF,                            20
                  IN THE FIRELIGHT,                21
                  TO THE EGOTIST AND THE ANSWER,   23
                  A PICTURE,                       24
                  THE PURITY OF PASSION,           25
                  LOVE’S CONTENT,                  25
                  HE LOVED HER,                    26
                  RELATIVITY,                      27
                  A SPRING IDYL,                   28


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             My Betrothed.


                             --------------


              Scarcely eighteen years have flitted,
              Scarcely eighteen merry summers,
              And as many merry winters,
              Have elapsed since my Roberta,
              My sweet blossom, my Roberta,
              Has had being, has existed.

              I have watched her in her cradle,
              When she cooed and wooed the sunshine,
              Tried to catch it in her fingers,
              Rosy, dimpled, baby fingers.
              We have played together often,
              Romped and raced and frolicked gaily;
              I, a lad, ten years her senior,
              Did adore her fondly, ever
              Fondly loved my baby sweetheart.
              I have watched her bud and blossom,
              Watched the dimpled child mature;
              Watched her till my heart beat wildly,
              Till my soul grew strangely troublous,
              Till I grew depressed and fretful,
              With a nameless dread and sorrow,
              And I understood it not.
              And I wearied soon without her,
              Wearied soon without Roberta,
              My sweet blossom, my Roberta,
              Whom I called my baby sweetheart,
              She that was my merry playmate,
              She whom I had watched mature.
              Then I realized I loved her,
              Dearly, deeply, loved Roberta;
              Not as one would love a sister,
              Not as one would love a daughter,
              But with burning soul and body,
              With impetuous desire,
              With a longing to possess her,
              To embrace her, to caress her;
              As a wife I loved Roberta,
              For my wife I meant to win her,
              Innocent and pure Roberta,
              Careless, thoughtless little girl.
              Then with eager haste I sought her,
              And with jealous eyes I watched her,
              And with trembling heart I wooed her;
              Careful to be always gentle,
              Gentle with my tender blossom,
              Lest I pain her or offend her
              With a passion she knew not.

              Innocent and pure Roberta,
              Careless, thoughtless little girl!
              I amused her with my wooing,
              With my earnestness I pleased her,
              And her laugh was loud and merry,
              And she tripped about so nimbly,
              With her golden hair dishevelled,
              With her blue eyes filled with joy.
              Then her merry laugh grew fainter,
              And she came and stood beside me,
              Looked up in my face serenely,
              Smiled up at me softly, sweetly,
              Smiled with eyes and smiled with lips.
              Then she hid her face so shyly,
              Hid her face upon my bosom,
              While I clasped her to me warmly,
              Passionately as I dared to,
              Lest she blush for me too soon.
              Then I heard her murmur something,
              Something I could not distinguish,
              So I bent my head to listen,
              Heard again her trembling whisper;
              Then I understood the message,
              Knew her soul to mine responded,
              Knew my darling’s heart was mine.

              Love, O Love, the world kneels to thee,
              Knows no other god than thee!
              Love, pure Love, most sacred passion,
              Thou hast made this earth a heaven,
              Thou hast filled my heart with rapture,
              Thrilled my soul with bliss divine!
              Love, sweet passion, hold me captive,
              Keep me thus thy slave forever,
              Hold me ever in thy power,
              Fill me, thrill me ever thus!
              Love, that holds us willing captives,
              Blinds our reason and our sense;
              Mighty love that stills the conscience,
              Binds the human soul to thraldom,
              Love that purifies or poisons,
              Sacred Love that rules the world.
              Love that stirs the fire of passion,
              Warms and thrills the hardened bosom,
              Moves the gentle heart to madness,
              Makes the saddest light and merry,
              Makes the happiest despair.
              Love that bows the proudest spirit,
              Bends the firmest like the willow,
              Holds the fiercest nature tranquil,
              And the strongest in subjection,
              Leads to virtue’s throne the vicious,
              Drives the purest to dishonor,
              Makes the noblest nobler still.
              There can be no higher power,
              There can be no greater ruler,
              There can be no stronger leader,
              Than the human passion, Love.
              Love, O Love, the world kneels to thee,
              Knows no other god than thee!

              Would I could describe Roberta,
              Could find words to do her justice,
              Words to her alone belonging,
              That do not apply to others,
              But alone to my Roberta,
              Innocent and pure Roberta,
              Careless, thoughtless little girl.

              Golden hair has my Roberta,
              Golden brown of richest color,
              Falling o’er her graceful shoulders,
              Like a halo ’bout her beaming,
              Like a golden cloud at even,
              Like a misty, golden cloud.
              Slim and slender is her body,
              Supple, lissom little body,
              Harmony in every outline,
              Grace and beauty in each movement,
              Simple, pretty, artless charms.
              Soft her skin as new-born baby’s,
              Soft and tender as a roseleaf,
              Creamy pink, without a blemish,
              Blend the lily’s pearly tintings
              With the fair flush of the rose.
              Dainty little ringlets flutter
              Carelessly about her forehead.
              Glows her face with bonny brightness,
              Childish, cheery, blooming beauty;
              Smiles irradiate her features,
              Glorify her dainty features,
              Azure eyes and rosebud lips.

              She is never dressed with primness,
              Never moulded to her costumes,
              Never pinched with useless girdles,
              Nor annoyed with bones and buttons,
              But is ever free and easy,
              Ever restful and contented,
              Ever graceful and bewitching,
              In her filmy, fleecy garments,
              In her robes of web-like texture,
              Not unlike the angels’ raiment
              In that heaven by fancy builded,
              In that mythical abode;
              Delicate and gauzy tissues,
              Clinging to her shapely figure,
              Clinging to her fairy form.

              She is unendowed with wisdom,
              She is not a brilliant scholar;
              Little knows she of the classics,
              And but little more of figures;
              Grammar lessons bore and vex her,
              History is dull and irksome,
              Nothing cares she for the past;
              Scarce a thought she gives the future;
              Dwells she ever in the present,
              In the merry, happy present,
              With the sunshine and the flowers,
              With the butterflies and birds.
              She would look with wide-eyed wonder,
              She would shrink with timid terror,
              From the gaudy, worldly women,
              From the unrespected men.
              She would list with ears bewildered,
              And with mingled doubt and pity,
              To the tales of want and hunger,
              Of destruction and disaster,
              Of the sufferings of women,
              Of the cruelties to children,
              Of tyrannical injustice
              To the worthiest of men,
              Innocent and unsuspecting,
              Ignorant of crime and outrage,
              Of the evils of the world.
              How I love her, my Roberta!
              Guileless, innocent Roberta,
              Delicate and dainty creature,
              Chaste and charming little maiden,
              Sweet, confiding, gentle maiden,
              My affianced wife, my own!

              I have won her first affection,
              I have drawn from her an answer
              To my eager, hasty wooing,
              To my over-zealous pleading,
              To my passionate appeals.
              Much too early I approached her,
              Much too early in good judgment,
              But I feared to leave my treasure
              Unpossessed and unprotected,
              Guarded only by herself.
              Soon she might be sought and courted,
              Soon, perhaps, deceived, deluded,
              Soon betrayed and soon forsaken
              By some base, designing villain,
              By some smooth-tongued, soft-voiced stranger,
              By some fiendish, human vulture,
              Ever seeking virtuous women
              To deceive, debase, destroy;
              By some treacherous, lying scoundrel,
              By some comely, polished ruffian,
              Whom society will fondle;
              Such as law lets go unpunished,
              While it murders better men.
              And thus fearful for my loved one,
              Jealous, too, of nobler suitors,
              Who might see and love Roberta,
              Who might win her while I waited,
              I, with feverish excitement,
              Sought and told her how I loved her,
              How I had adored her ever,
              How I hoped that she would love me,
              And would let me call her wife.
              Then I heard her whispered answer,
              Bent my ear to catch the murmur,
              Then I knew her heart responded,
              Knew my darling’s love was mine.

              Once I kissed her, kissed her warmly,
              While she nestled on my bosom
              In her playful, childish manner,
              In her loving, trusting way.
              We were standing in the shadow,
              Quite alone and quite forgotten.
              Then I put my arms about her,
              And she took them not away;
              And I loved her near to madness,
              And I clasped her closer to me,
              And I kissed her madly, hotly,
              With the recklessness of passion,
              With the courage of desire.
              Then Roberta, sweet Roberta,
              Clinging still about me closely,
              With her naked arms embraced me,
              With her dimpled hands caressed me,
              Of her own sweet will and pleasure,
              While I kissed her and embraced her,
              And her warm breast quivered gently
              ’Neath my rash, presumptuous hand!
              ’Twas only once I kissed her thus,
              Darling, charming, chaste Roberta,
              Only once she thus caressed me,
              Only once and that was all!

              Often comes she to me shyly,
              Cuddles to me snugly, closely,
              Like a little child at night-time,
              Like a tired, weary child.
              With her tender, slender fingers,
              Soft and pretty, little fingers,
              Playfully my hair she rumples,
              Playfully my ear she pinches,
              Lovingly my cheek she kisses,
              Lovingly my hand caresses,
              With the purity of childhood,
              Budding into maiden charms.
              Tells me then how much she loves me,
              More than ever every minute,
              More than birds and more than sunshine,
              More than many hundred roses,
              More than she can count or measure,
              Loves me best in all the world.
              Smiling, trusting child of Nature,
              Gentle, tender, loving maiden,
              Laughing, singing quaint Roberta,
              My sweet blossom, my Roberta,
              My beloved one, my own!
              Sweet, confiding, true Roberta,
              She I called my baby sweetheart,
              She that was my merry playmate,
              She whom I had watched mature.
              I will love her, watch her, guard her,
              I will shield her and protect her,
              Keep her modest, maiden graces,
              Keep the innocence of childhood,
              Of an artless, open nature,
              Spread above her like a shelter,
              Like a calm and peaceful shelter,
              From the burning sun of passion,
              From the glow of warmer love.
              O Roberta, my Roberta,
              Sweet and loving little maiden,
              Tender, gentle, kind Roberta,
              Innocent and pure Roberta,
              Careless, thoughtless little girl!

              My Roberta loves me fondly,
              Loves me with sincere devotion,
              With a tender, true affection,
              With a sweet and simple love.
              Slumbers yet her deeper nature,
              Slumbers yet her woman’s feeling,
              Quietly within her bosom,
              In her peaceful, virgin bosom,
              Undisturbed and unsuspected,
              Yet dispassionate and calm.
              Mine and mine alone this treasure,
              Mine alone shall be the pleasure
              Of removing from about her,
              With an eager hand, the mantle
              Of her maiden innocence.
              In my arms shall she awaken
              To the blissfulness of loving,
              To the pleasant agitations
              I will kindle in her bosom,
              That will permeate her being
              With a new and strange delight.

              Mine alone the hand to lead her
              From the canopy above her,
              That is now a peaceful shelter
              From the burning sun of passion,
              From the glow of warmest love.
              Mine alone the right to touch her,
              Mine alone the right to teach her
              With my kisses and caresses,
              With my passionate embraces,
              Whispered words of sweeter pleasures,
              Sweeter raptures and emotions
              Than she ever yet has known.
              But not yet must I disturb her,
              Yet awhile must I be patient,
              Yet awhile delay the blisses
              Of her first impassioned kisses,
              Yet awhile endure the longing
              To embrace her and caress her
              As I shall when she is older,
              In the happy, happy future,
              When my darling, my Roberta,
              My sweet blossom, my Roberta,
              Bears the sacred name of wife!

              O Roberta! My Roberta!
              Beautiful and bonny maiden,
              Tender, gentle, loving creature,
              Laughing, singing, quaint Roberta,
              Simple, trusting child of Nature,
              Smiling, happy little maiden,
              My affianced wife, my own!

              In the morning of creation,
              In the ages long forgotten,
              In the earth nor in the heavens,
              Has there ever yet existed
              Any creature so beloved
              By another, as Roberta,
              My Roberta, is by me.
              Lives there now nor shall there ever
              In the limitless creation,
              In the everness of matter,
              In the universe eternal,
              Any creature like Roberta,
              Any creature so admired,
              So beloved by another,
              So adored and so beloved,
              As Roberta, sweet Roberta,
              My Roberta, is by me!


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           Genius Imprisoned.


                             --------------


           In a dark and dingy place,
           Surrounded by the sombre, dull-hued things
           Of daily business life,
           A youth, a pale and wan, though handsome youth,
           Sits toiling day by day.
           Upon the gray and queer-cracked wall
           The plain old office clock
           Ticks out the tedious time
           In slow and measured strokes.
           The youth’s blue eyes glance slowly,
           Wearily along the lengthy line
           Of graceful 2’s and 3’s,
           And now and then the jerky scratching of his pen
           Disturbs the gloomy silence of the room.
           The Autumn sunbeams flicker oddly
           Through the uncleansed panes
           And fall athwart the fine-ruled ledger page.

           Ah, what is that?
           His quick ear hears the pleasant sound
           Of distant music strains.

           Ay, hark and hark again!
           Sweet music, plainer heard,
           And fast and fast approaching.
           The pen, unheeded, slips and falls
           From out his loosened hand.
           His tear-stained eyes dance wildly
           To the merry peals;
           His thin lips part in sweet, sad smiles;
           He stands enraptured, charmed and joy-bewildered!
           His attitude is one of untrained grace and beauty;
           One hand pressed lightly on his throbbing heart,
           The other half-uplifted,
           With the gesture of a waiting maiden
           List’ning for her lover’s gentle step.
           His eyes, though turned upon the ever-ticking clock,
           See not the stern, rude hands;
           His ears hear not the irksome ticking;
           He takes no note of time.
           His very soul drinks in those grand,
           Those glorious strains,
           And from his radiant face
           There beams a world of poetry and song.
           Spellbound, entranced, inspired he stands.
           Then from his smiling, parted lips
           His soul breathes forth a poem.
           The words come ready-formed,
           In pretty, well-turned phrases;
           And when the music ceases
           The yet unfinished poem
           Still lingers on his faintly-murmuring lips.
           Unconsciously he gazes,
           But sees not, hears not,
           Till the cruel clock strikes harshly
           The death-knell of that poem.

           Back! brought rudely back again!
           The music stopped,
           The poem curtly ended,
           That youthful face,
           So lately lit with ecstasy of joy,
           Wears now a look of keen and sharp-felt pain.
           “Tick, tock,” work, work, “tick, tock,” work, work!

           Alas! thy fair, sweet dreams
           Will not bring bread and shelter
           To thy aged, widowed mother!
           Thy life is not thine own.
           To work, to work!

           O fair and noble youth,
           Imprisoned poet soul!
           If opportunity were thine
           The world should have a well-loved hero,
           Whose works should live,
           Whose name should shine, forever,
           And for thy liberty the world would be the better.

           Society, thou ill-constructed thing,
           Reform thyself!
           Dethrone the worthless idlers!
           Make room for worthy Genius!

           O ye men of wealth and power,
           Should this be so?
           Should Genius, out of place,
           Toil on till death, impoverished, unknown?
           This poet soul, imprisoned, dreams away.
           A thousand brilliant thoughts
           Come rushing to his brain,
           And, like some caged wild bird,
           Flap their wings and cry for liberty,
           But find it not,
           And fade and die imprisoned.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              I Love You.


                             --------------


                 I love you fondly, deeply, truly;
                   My heart rejoices with its load
                   Of fondness, all on you bestowed.
                         I smile and sigh,
                         I laugh and cry;
                   My feelings seem at times unruly,
                     And all because I love you.
                 I love you, and the knowledge real
                 Is sweetest that the heart can feel.
                   For all the world I would not lose
                     The glad truth that I love you.

                 I love you, darling, without measure,
                   Adore you more than I can tell,
                   Thy being o’er me casts a spell.
                         At times I’m sad,
                         Again I’m glad—
                   A mingling queer of pain and pleasure—
                     And all because I love you.
                 I love you, and would not conceal
                 The joy unspeakable I feel.
                   Naught can alter or destroy
                     The knowledge that I love you.

                 I love you. My whole heart you’ve taken;
                   But I have yours to fill the void,
                   And so my breast is overjoyed.
                         What joy is mine
                         When words of thine
                   Bid sorrow fly and hope awaken!
                     And all because I love you.
                 You may forsake me by-and-by,
                 But I will love you till I die,
                   For only death can steal the bliss
                     I feel because I love you.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                 Self.


                             --------------


        All, all are selfish.
        There is not one who does not live himself to please.
        Life holds for each no other aim or object
        Than to gratify and satisfy his own ambitions and desires.
        We call those generous who deny themselves
        To give to others,
        But by those same denials
        They are taking greater pleasures than they give,
        For no one does or can give to another
        More happiness than he himself receives.

        Those are just who claim for others
        The rights they for themselves exact.
        Those are generous who would make for others
        The opportunities they wish themselves.
        The happiest are those who are to others kindest,
        And who cause most happiness to all.
        The great are those who make the world
        The better by their deeds.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           In the Firelight.


                             --------------


                          The daylight gone,
                          The curtains drawn,
                    The evening meal completed;
                          My bird abed,
                          With tiny head
                    ’Neath golden wing secreted;

                          By firelight’s glare
                          And easy chair
                    And cosy cushions wooed,
                          Alone I sit,
                          With lamps unlit,
                    In peaceful solitude.

                          My tired feet
                          Soft slippers greet;
                    Unloosened hang my tresses;
                          My dressing gown,
                          As soft as down,
                    My weary form caresses.

                          The purring cat
                          Upon the mat
                    Beneath my feet is dozing.
                          The firelight falls
                          Upon the walls,
                    The pictures half exposing.

                          The flashing light,
                          Now dull, now bright,
                    Makes objects queer look queerer.
                          Above the shelf
                          I see myself
                    Reflected in the mirror.

                          The painted faces
                          Of the Graces
                    Each smiling at me seems.
                          Upon the stand
                          Close at my hand,
                    My gilt-edged Shakespeare gleams.

                          My fancy traces
                          Forms and faces
                    Among the glowing coals.
                          The fitful blaze
                          Incessant plays
                    At making fiery scrolls.

                          From silver vase
                          On dressing case
                    I scent the fragrant rose.
                          ’Mid silence deep,
                          Inviting sleep,
                    My drooping eyelids close.

                          Come then, sweet dreams
                          Of pleasant themes,
                    And soothe me in my slumber;
                          My soul entice
                          To Paradise,
                    ’Mid pleasures without number.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            To the Egotist.


                             --------------


            Think of this earth, this great revolving globe,
            That whirls along its boundless path,
            Through the immensity of space!
            Think of the multitude of stars
            That dot the midnight sky;
            Think of the myriads more beyond,
            That baffle man’s conception!
            Think of a million suns and more,
            Vast orbs of living fire;
            Think of this endless wilderness of worlds,
            The universe!
            And what are you?


                               THE ANSWER.

            I am an atom in the universe;
            I am composed of myriads of atoms
            That are each composed of countless atoms more.
            I am a moving, breathing, living human being.
            I am I!
            I see, I hear, I feel, I speak.
            I _think_ of this vast wilderness of worlds,
            The universe, and the thought affords me pleasure.
            _Can it_ think of me?


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               A Picture.


                             --------------


  Tall and stately, well-developed, graceful as a willow bough,
  Dark, luxuriant, glossy ringlets clust’ring o’er a noble brow;
    Pearly, rounded arms and shoulders, long and slender pink-tipped
       hands;
    Clasped above one dimpled elbow glitter two, broad golden bands.
  In a nest of snowy laces, coyly hiding from survey,
  Gently heaves a blushing bosom in a love-provoking way.
    ’Neath a gown of fine-spun fabric plainly is the outline traced
    Of voluptuous hips expanding from a high and narrow waist.
  Tapering limbs of witching plumpness, cunning, captivating feet—
  Form suggesting worlds of pleasure, dreams of bliss than aught more
     sweet.

  Ah! a face of wondrous beauty! Deep, dark eyes of midnight blue,
  Silken lashes lightly resting on soft cheeks of healthy hue.
    Tinted ears, like dainty sea-shells, finely chiseled nose and chin;
    Even teeth of gleaming whiteness in a small mouth half shut in;
  Full, ripe lips—a fount of sweetness—ever pleading for a kiss.
  Who could see without admiring an impassioned girl like this?


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         The Purity of Passion.


                             --------------


                 As the sunshine wooes the water
                   Till it gleams with glad’ning smiles,
                 And the burning earth’s bare beauty
                   The soothing cloud beguiles;
                 As the valley lies contented
                   ’Neath the shelt’ring mountain high,
                 And the wild flow’r yields its sweetness
                   To the winsome butterfly;
                 As the winds with gentle tremor
                   The willing leaves caress,
                 And the vine entwines the oak tree
                   With loving tenderness;
                 As the planets in their orbits
                   Their satellites allure,
                 So—in perfect health and reason—
                   Is Love’s passion to the pure.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                            Love’s Content.


                             --------------


             O darling, there is in this great world of ours
               So much, so very much sadness,
             But, when you hold me in your arms and kiss me,
               I feel only joy and gladness.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             He Loved Her.


                             --------------


  He loved her. His blue eyes looked lovingly down into hers
    And read there an answer responsive and true.
  She knew that he loved her. His eyes told the tale of his love,
    Those half-closed, kind eyes of such soft, melting blue.
  But his lips never spoke those sweet words to her ear,
  Those three sweet words, “I love you,” she longed so to hear,
    O why wouldn’t he just say, “I love you?”

  He loved her. His red, trembling lips touched her own, and clung there
    In one tender kiss, one long, rapturous kiss.
  She knew that he loved her. Her heart throbbed with happiness deep,
    And her whole being thrilled with an infinite bliss.
  But the whispered “My darling,” she longed for in vain,
  For his lips, when not kissing, would silent remain.
    O why wouldn’t he whisper, “My darling?”

  He loved her. His arms held her quivering form close to him;
    She felt his hot breath on her soft, blushing cheek.
  She knew that he loved her. With passionate tenderness then
    He clasped her still closer. Her own will grew weak.
  Would the sweet, longed-for words from his lips never come?
  Alas! never, poor girl! For her lover was dumb.
    O what exquisite joy was denied her!


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              Relativity.


                             --------------


                    If all the flowers were roses,
                      A rose would not be rare;
                    If all the days were cloudless,
                      We’d call not any fair.

                    If all the books were bibles,
                      But few would learn to read;
                    If all the world were Christians,
                      There’d be no better creed.

                    If everything were scarlet,
                      There’d be no black or white;
                    If there were nothing evil,
                      There’d be no wrong or right.

                    If every zone were frigid,
                      There’d be no milder clime;
                    If everybody pilfered,
                      To steal would be no crime.

                    If people did not differ
                      In sentiment and thought,
                    Mankind would be a unit,
                      And life would be for naught.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             A Spring Idyl.


                             --------------


                   On the branches of the trees
                   In the summer morning breeze,
                 Many merry, happy birds
                 Sing their songs to flocks and herds.
                   Little, laughing, rippling rills
                   Gaily flow down green-clad hills.
                 In open fields, in forest nooks,
                 On the mossy banks of brooks,
                   Shedding rare and sweet perfume,
                   Dewy, bright-hued flowers bloom.
                 O’er the waving, glistening grass
                 Come a loving lad and lass.

         Strolling so leisurely, languidly, dreamily,
           Plucking a flower now here and now there;
         Chatting so merrily, happily, cheerily.
           Blessings be many on that loving pair.
         Notice how carefully, lovingly, tenderly,
           O’er the rough way he is guiding her feet.
         See how she eagerly, joyfully, gratefully
           Drinks in the strains of his voice low and sweet.

                       What is he saying?
                       Timid, delaying,
             Wishing, yet fearing, his love to impart.
                       Why is he waiting,
                       Shy, hesitating?
             Surely that maid knows the love in his heart.
                       Why does he blush so?
                       Why does she flush so?
             Ah, he has told her! What joy lights her face!
                       Kissing, caressing,
                       Sweet love expressing,
             Thrilling with bliss in each other’s embrace.

         Louder and livelier, merrier, sprightlier,
           Warble your benison, beautiful birds,
         While Nature smilingly, heartily, cordially
           Blesses with silence more welcome than words.
         Screened by the wide-spreading, friendly old maple tree,
           Bathed in the glorious sunshine they stand.
         Together, then, leave them in sacred communion—
           Holy affections deep reverence command.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           Transcriber’s Notes


  This file uses _underscores_ to indicate italic text.

  Itemized changes from the original text:

  • p. 19: The intended indentation in “I Love You” was not clear
    because of the large decorative capital, and was chosen editorially.
  • p. 27: Period replaced with comma at the end of the fifth line of
    “Relativity.”
  • p. 28 The intended indentation in “A Spring Idyl” was not clear
    because of the large decorative capital, and was chosen editorially.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY BETROTHED AND OTHER POEMS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


